---
tags :
- Page
creation date : 2022-10-24 12:10 
---

## Introduction
Psychiatry and Patient-Physician relations have a long history, with practices and treatments for mental illnesses starting thousands of years ago. While important, we are looking back on the standard practices from 2000-2020 to give you an understanding of the field today.

## Standard Practice
A common practice during this time was Psychoanalysis. [[Psychoanalytical Tradition]] and Psychoanalytical Therapy are based in theories that have since been disproved. While not fully abandoned, its no longer standard practice in Therapy.

The most common form of therapy during this time was [[Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT)]]. It is still widely used, and if you have ever gone to the Psychiatrist this is likely the approach they used.

[[Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT)]] remained standard practice during this 20 year span because it is the best "one size fits all" solution. With compliant patients, other treatments have shown to be more effective, but CBT has shown to be effective with stonewalling patients. Often, things like board games, card games, puzzles, etc. are activities physicians use along-side CBT to get past stonewalling.

## Progression
Within this 20 year span, there was a big leap in psychiatric tools. In the early 2000's, patient-physician relations were almost exclusively in-person. [[Current Digital Technologies]] have changed this slowly over time, with many patients having the ability to message their therapist at any time in case of emergency. The use of  [[Current Digital Technologies]] in patient-physician relations has greatly increased due to the 2019 pandemic, COVID-19. With people stuck in their homes, and economic scares the demand for mental health services went up dramatically, and resulted in what we have coined the [[COVID Progression]]. 

During this time [[Telepsychiatry]] became very common. Allowing patients and their physicians to meet without being in the same room. This change in pace opened doors for more [[Offline Digital Tools]] to start becoming standard practice, leading us to the [[Present (2020-2023)]]. 

---
##### Related
[[Non-Verbal Communication]]
[[Therapeutic Alliance]]

---
##### References


---
##### Hierarchy
###### Up
up:: [[Home]]
###### Down
down:: [[Psychoanalytical Tradition]]
down:: [[COVID Progression]]
###### Same
same:: [[Present (2020-2023)]]
same:: [[Future]]
###### Next
next:: 
###### Previous
prev:: 